The Joe Rogan experience.
So what do you do now in terms of like you got over this five
years ago, you're in this bad situation where your body's not working right now,
everything's working great. Again.
Heart surgeries also. Whoa. So you know, it was on your heart.
So I had a hole in it. So, you know,
you're not supposed to have a hole in your heart and be a seal and it would be
born with it. I was born with it, it went undetected and me pushing so hard.
So in 2009, Australian fish race across America. And,
um, I just couldn't go anymore.
Another pitfall in my life was the hole and I was pretty much off active duty
seal for three years. You know, I had to harsher them trying to fix it.
So the hole was significantly large. Okay. How big is it?
They say it was as big as a quarter. I'm like,
how the hell is the biggest a quarter? Yeah. That's,
that's a pretty big hole in your heart. Cause they had two helix patches.
I'm like, that's impossible that the helix patches they're in my heart.
So the two stance, what is a helix patch? It is like a, a little mesh.
Very like what they do for hernias. Like something like maybe.
Something like that.
So they went up through my femoral artery and they placed this patch.
But to go through your artery. Yeah. They went through my, for more artery.
Yeah. It was a.
Camera. Yeah.
No, the camera was down through my throat. Whoa.
And they put this catheter through my femoral artery that went to my heart.
They,
they went and they took this helix patch that they placed it in there.
And then they found out six months later that the hole wasn't covered up enough
yet. Cause the hole was this, I mean in the helix patch was very big.
So they put, go back in there in 2010.
How does the patch adhere to your heart?
I guess your heart heals around the patch.
So, but how did they stick and in place? I.
I guess they put it where the holes at and then it kind of like inflates,
oh wow. Where the hole is at.
And then that thing goes in there and then it kinda covers the hole and then the
heart.
So there's two things in my heart right now that the heart is kind of covered
up. Whoa.
Okay. So here's it. Jamie's got a, an image of it for us.
Whoa. So, so it's attached to this little probe,
right? And then they put it over the area where the injury is. Wow.
That's insane.
Yeah. Atrial septum defect. I had atrial septal defect.
So basically everything I had done, I got from.
Medicine. Oh.
Crappy done. I'll be.
Done. That's so crazy that they could do that.
Yeah. So I was out for, um, I was off active duty for three years. So I stuck,
I was in, uh,
a recruiting area for three years trying to get back on active duty and that's,
that was my life for three years.
So they put that patch in. Yep. And now your heart's a hundred percent. It's.
Present as a hundred percent. Wow. Yeah. That's incredible. Yeah.
I was losing blood and I was this, I was a bad.
Add off,
which is amazing that you were able to do all that with a hole in your heart.
For the doctors were saying, you know, cause they ain't know I was a seal.
So I went in and the doctor that found the hole are like, so they'd gave me,
EKG is all this stuff. Once again, man. It's after I ran like 200,
five miles, you know like, man, you're in great shape. I'm like, man,
I just don't feel good. Like walking up the stairs is making me jacked up.
So the doctor, doc Shrek, he's like, you know, it gave me EKG. He goes,
go to the doctor, get an echocardiogram. So I'm in there getting echocardiogram,
just chilling out in there. And the guy's talking to me,
he has this little wand in my heart. We're bullshitting the boss stuff. And he,
when people get quiet, that's not good man.
So he's in there and his head is one of my heart chilling out. Yeah man,
what are you doing? Yo, what's going on there? Like,
and he says, I'll be right back. He goes and gets a doctor. Doctor comes in,
puts things on my heart. The doctor gets another doctor.
Now I'm just freaking the out. I'm like, okay.
Cause when it comes to your heart, you know, as big deal.
So they come back in and they say, Hey, we can stop the echocardiogram.
When they talk to you in the hallway, you have a hole in your heart.
And the guy didn't know that I was, he knew I was a Navy guy.
I don't think he was a seal because not many black guys are seals. And he,
we had a conversation about, you know, we gotta fix this real quick. I said,
yeah. I mean, then I came up, I was a seal. He said, man,
you could have died jumping. You could die diving. You could have died.
And all this stuff, cause basically the hole in your heart,
if it gets plugged with something like anything, like, you know,
let's say you get a bubble from diving or something like that. You gotta die.
Right. So I, I, I call it luck. I call it luck.
Wow. So I, uh, I got through two surgeries. They put me back on.
They give you the first one. And then when did they realize that it's not,
not good enough.
So they take you back and you got to get a bubble study, a bubble test. So they,
so they like literally send bubbles that way, safe bubbles.
That way to see if the bubble goes through your heart. So they have this, this,
um, echocardiogram again and they hook you up,
I think to Ivy or something like that.
And they throw these bubbles through your heart and they see if it goes through
after six months when it should have been healed up, the bubble went through.
So he had to tell me, Dan, Hey, we got to, you know, you're not,
you're not good to go.
So I had to take a year before I could have another surgery
because that patch had to be completely, completely healed.
So before they can go through.
All this time, you knew you.
Had a hole, right? So, so they knew how to hold because of the.
Right. But all this time, like when you're waiting for it to heal, you know,
you have an extra hole. I know.
I have a hole in.
It. What were you allowed to do with your body then?
Well, at that time, they go, you know, do how you feel comfortable. And so,
you know, the, the whole is not going to kill you right now, but you can't die.
You can't jump. You pretty much wouldn't steal anymore.
So I was a recruiter for a period of time. Um,
so basically I was crazy about that is before my second
surgery, I was actually training for Delta force. I was, I,
I wanted to go to Delta and I was rucking, ruck running a lot.
And.
Before my second truck running and you're running with a.
Pack, a pack on my back with some weight on how heavy is the pack, 50.
60 Pounds.
And you run with that on, well,
you're supposed to hike or hump like ruck humping. Right.
I ran with it because I w cause you know, that's what I did. Right?
So the day before, the day of the day of heart surgery,
I did a ruck run. Jeez,
because I knew I was gonna be out of commission for awhile.
So it matter. Get my last one here. And dude, Jesus Christ. So I could do,
I have, I have my training logs after my second heart surgery,
all I could do was walk. So I became an ultra Walker,
walk my off. And over a period of time,
it took a year for that thing to heal up the hill. You know,
my first Bible study,
after my second heart surgery came back negative or positive,
the bubble went through again. Oh no. And they're going to crack me open.
Oh man. Over that period of time, a heart healed around that thing nicely.
And I passed the second bubble test. So.
The first bubble test was how long after a year it was.
So the first bubble test after the first surgery was six months.
And then you had to go through a full six months after that for,
to totally heal. Then you have the second heart surgery.
And when does the bubble test fail? After the second heart surgery.
It was about six months, Jesus Christ. And they said,
and the doctor looked at me and said, you know, I'm sorry to informing me.
We hit the crack, your chest open the next time. They're really getting there.
And so I sat back thinking there's gonna be a third heart surgery. And then, um,
that one, they said,
we have to wait for six months to see if this thing's going to close up. Right.
And I came back thinking, man, I'm about to get cracked the open.
And that bubble got pinned up, man. Did they go.
Through, maybe force it through with your mind. I.
Know, right?
When you visualize and that's it, man, it's something to visualize. Holy, man.
That is crazy. It's crazy. One on a ruck run with a hole in your heart to, mm.
Well I did it for several years. I said, it. I might as well keep on going, man.
That's amazing. Now after all said and done, everything's good now.
Yeah. Everything. I mean,
I'm sure if something was to pop up in my and I have to do that, you know,
everything's good right now.
I'm always waiting for the next thing to pop up and I handle it the same way I
was attack it. But yeah, as of right now,
I'm in the best shape of my 43 years old just turned 43, February 17th.
I am in the best shape of my life. I'm not knocking on wood because life it.
Life comes at you dude. So knocking on wood. Come at me.
I mean, I would think that you would be a go-to guy for injuries.
Like if anybody's had.
I've had them all I've had.
When you broke the world record for chin-ups didn't you rip your arm apart,
pull up. See?
Yeah. So if you pull up the picture, man, there's a picture of my hand.
You'll see. I'll know.
What is it? Pull ups are so pull ups are here, hands out,
hands out and chin ups, our.
Hands for hands forward. So I fell three to,
I fell twice before I finally got it the third time. And um, I,
the first time I ripped the on my forearm and then the second time,
you'll see,
there's a picture of my hand and it is a third degree burn.
So that's my hand.
Oh Jesus man. What in the is going to look at you a bit by a wall.
So what's funny about that as you see that, uh,
that doesn't create after one pull-up. So if you can imagine the pain of,
cause you know, you have one contact point, that's it it's like running.
You can overcome it because you have these big, giant legs and it's,
it's different when you have these little fragile punk hands touching the bar,
you know, imagine 4,030.
Pull-ups how many times you're coming on that bar coming off right now weigh 207
pounds at the time. So I was, I was a bigger guy. I'm like 1 95, 180 5 now.
So I was the most, I was 22 pounds heavier.
So I was a lot bigger than I am right there. Bam. You look pretty get that, man.
So you were doing it in sets of.
Five, testified. So as you see,
you have these different people who are witnessing you, you have to have your,
your, your number there to make sure that you're, um, you know,
qualify for the guest book of rose record. That's 1450.
I have a long way to govern the 4,015 pull-ups to go hard.
Jesus Christ. So, yeah. And how long.
Did you do this? Over.
24 Hours. It was seven, so I broke it up 17. Wow.
And I was over it.